Mining networks for relevant information has been a key research topic involving various sub-fields such as graph mining, networking, parallel computing and artificial intelligence[Ref]. Mining graph networks can be broadly classified into static graph mining and dynamic network mining. The problem of mining static or time variant graphs for localized behaviors and its impact on global properties is one of the difficult problems [Ref]. The problem gets more compounded when network sizes grow in large volumes as most of algorithms have scalability issues [Ref].As most of the graph modeling problems such as link predictions, finding communities and bridges, cliques etc. fall under NP-hard category, choice of some heuristic based evolutionary algorithms been successful [Ref]. 

Recently, a generic parallel learning algorithm, PSBML, which is hybrid of evolutionary and machine learning has been successful in supervised and unspupervised learning problems [Ref]. The key novelty of PSBML is how scalability is achieved and the fact that it overcomes the major limitations of existing approaches to big data, i.e., sampling and customized parallel solutions [Ref]. Furthermore, due to its distributed nature, paradigm is especially effective with massive data. It leverages concepts from stochastic optimization and ensemble learning to arrange a collection of learners in a two-dimensional toroidal grid. Each learner works independently on a portion of the data, and shares its “results” only with its neighbor learners. Through this local interaction, the information discovered locally at each cell (i.e., learner) gradually travels throughout the entire grid. Eventually, the collaborative behavior of the learners enables the emergence of the crucial information to solve the problem at hand. The grid configuration allows an effective and efficient processing of large amounts of data in a distributed and parallel fashion, while the local interaction and information sharing provides the ensemble behavior.  The emerging behavior only requires local interaction among the learners, thus enabling a high degree of parallelism. Additionally, the nodes of the grid can use different learning algorithms, and they may be spread among heterogeneous machines.

This abstract parallel learning framework can fit into many graph mining problems, for example in NP complete problem of community detection in large networks. Genetic algorithms with cluster ensemble technique has been scussefully implmeneted in this area for smaller networks [Ref]. We will map the parallelization, ensemble and divide and conquer of this approach using the PSBML framework for scaling the community detection technique for large networks. Boosting the nodes which have stronger comunities using local search in cells and parallelization of GA and boosting is what the PSBML mapping will achieive. (The entire graph will be distributed uniformly in each cells of the grid so that each cell works on the micro-network). Each cell of the grid has a custom GA running with neighborhood interactions. Like in most GA adaptation of graph problem, LAR (Locus based Adjacency Representation) is used as string chromosome representation [Ref]. GA in each cell will have initial population customized using random walk markov chain for better diversity and initialization [Ref]. The population in each cell breeds and generates individuals as per custom crossover techniques such as edge association and topological edge association[Ref]. Fitness function of each GA individual in their respective cells will be based on network modularity value of Q function either on the the micro-network it has the view[Ref]. At the end of the generation, selection operation for next iteration can use neighborhood concept of topological grid to get most fit indivduals, thus boosting the represenation of individuals which are more representing communities. 

This framework can easily be implemented in parallel distributed framework such as Apache Spark. 